Js doc (#296)
darwinia-network/darwinia-docs: docs/sdk/darwinia.js/Substrate API/api-derive.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# API-Derive

> Common function derived from RPC calls and storage queries. Note that Darwinia.js libary version must be greate than v2.8.0 including api-derive feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common function derived from RPC calls and storage queries. Note that darwinia.js library version must be greater than v2.8.0 to include the api-derive feature.
```

Install it in your project directory with the following command:

```json
	yarn add @darwinia/api-derive
```

Inject our **darwiniaDerive** when creating API instance

```typescript
// Import
import { ApiPromise, WsProvider } from '@polkadot/api';
import { darwiniaDerive } from '@darwinia/api-derive/bundle';
import { typesBundle } from "@darwinia/types/mix";
...

// Construct
const wsProvider = new WsProvider('wss://rpc.darwinia.network');
const api = await ApiPromise.create({ provider: wsProvider, typesBundle: typesBundle.spec.darwinia, derives: darwiniaDerive });

```

> Since you are already familiar with the api.query interface, the api.derive interface follows the same format, for instance **usableBalance** derived function to query account's Ring Balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since you are already familiar with the api.query interface, the api.derive interface follows the same format, for instance **usableBalance** derived function to query account's RING Balance.
```

Reviewer: RING KTON
